Blog post: Pulumi Console Improvements, February 2020 (#2553)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/pulumi-service-improvements_02-2020/index.md

---

> title: "Pulumi Console Improvements, February 2020"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Administering Infrastructure Gets Easier with Pulumi Console Improvements"
```

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure this improves, personally. I think the title works well as-is, given the informational nature of the post, along with the intent to release them on an ongoing basis. (In other words, in next month's batch, you probably wouldn't say exactly the same thing, right?) The suggestion also reads like a news headline or press release, which also doesn't quite line up with the content of the post. Just my 0.02, though. 😄

Reviewer: If this is intended to be a progress update, then I agree with keeping the original title.

---
title: "Pulumi Console Improvements, February 2020"

> h1: "Pulumi Console Improvements, February 2020"

Reviewer 2: These are optional, so can be removed unless they need to be different.

```suggestion
```

Do note that we have a generator that makes nice, clean Markdown files for new blog posts. You are kindly encouraged to use it. 😄

Author: TIL!

authors: ["chris-smith"]

> tags: ["pulumi","new-features"]

Reviewer 3: Under the assumption that tags are useful for SEO, could we add more here? For example, pulumi ci, cicd, travis, gitlab, azure pipelines, pulumi audit logs etc.

Reviewer 2: I'd add that we should also use these sparingly and thoughtfully, with an eye toward reuse. They are helpful for SEO, but at the same time, the "tag cloud" grows less useful with each new one that gets added, and when the same post appears on multiple tag pages, it may even reduce the overall SEO impact. IMO, less is more here.

Reviewer 3: Got it. Thanks for the explanation, Christian!

date: "2020-02-28"

> meta_desc: "Recent improvements to the Pulumi Console: stack tags, audit logs, CI/CD integration, downloadable checkpoint files"

Reviewer 3: Since we will have future posts like this, should we put February 2020 in the meta description? So that users searching for things like "February 2020 pulumi changelog" or what ever and this comes up. Just a thought..not sure if it actually matters to have the description the way I am thinking.

Reviewer 4: The meta description doesn't have a direct effect on rank, but rather is used to help describe to the user what the page is about. It would have an impact on CTR (click-through-rate) but are not a factor in the ranking algorithm.

https://moz.com/learn/seo/meta-description

Reviewer 3: Doesn't the meta_description also show-up in the search result?

Reviewer 4: Yes, it shows up in the search result below the page title. So the result today would look something like:

[Pulumi Console Improvements, February 20202 | Pulumi](#)
Recent improvements to the Pulumi Console: stack tags, audit logs, CI/CD integration, downloadable checkpoint files.

Reviewer 3: Got it. Yes, moreover, the page title itself has "February 2020" already, so what I was thinking originally doesn't matter anymore.

meta_image: "pretty-print-multiline-json.gif"
---

> Hello! Many posts here on the [Pulumi blog]({{< relref "/blog" >}}) describe new features in our core libraries or

Reviewer 5: I think we can likely just skip this paragraph - lead in with what's exciting instead of what sounds a little like an excuse.

Author: Fair enough, done.

command-line client. But in this post, we'll highlight some of the recent improvements to the [Pulumi Console](https://app.pulumi.com).

We've been hard at work making it easier to manage stacks, permissions, and organizations. So we're super-excited to showcase
what's new!

<!--more-->

## First-class Support for Tags

Pulumi has had support for [stack tags]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/stack#stack-tags" >}}) for a while, enabling

> you to add attribute your stacks with custom data such as the `account-id` or `environment`. But previously the data was

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
you to add attributes your stacks with custom data such as the `account-id` or `environment`. But previously the data was
```

only available on the command-line, via the `pulumi stack tag` command ([documentation]({{< relref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_stack_tag" >}})).

> We've added first-class support for stack tags. You can now create, update, and delete tags from within the Pulumi Console.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We've now added first-class support for stack tags in the Pulumi Console as well. You can create, update, and delete tags from within the console.
```

![Updating stack tags within the Pulumi Console](./update-tags-in-console.png)

But making it easier to create and edit tag data is just the beginning. We've started to add new search/filtering capabilities
based on stack tags. For example, you can now use filters to more quickly add stacks to [Pulumi teams]({{< relref "/docs/intro/console/collaboration/teams" >}}).

![Filtering stacks by their tags](./filter-stacks-by-tag.png)

We will continue wiring stack tags throughout other parts of the Pulumi Console, so stay tuned! Also, this new feature was

> added by Pulumi's first (and extremely awesome) inter, Tasia (👋)!

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
added by Pulumi's first (and extremely awesome) intern, Tasia (👋)!
```

Perhaps also a link to Tasia's GitHub?

Author: I didn't want to draw too much attention to it in case @tasiah didn't want TO BECOME A CELEBRITY. Would you feel comfortable with us linking to your GitHub profile Tasia? (Or any other URL, like a personal blog or something?)

Reviewer 6: Feel free to add my Github or LinkedIn. I don't mind either way :)

## Deep Linking into CI/CD Systems

> We've also added deep links from the Pulumi Console to the CI/CD job or task that performed an update. So depending on

Reviewer 5: Perhaps structure as "Many Pulumi users today integrate Pulumi with their CI/CD systems.  We've now added support for deep links from the Pulumi Console back into your CI/CD tool of choice"?

Author: Yes, that flows a lot better, done.

links to things like the [Circle CI job](http://circleci.com) or [Travis CI build](http://travis-ci.com) as appropriate.

![Link to the Travis CI Build from the Pulumi Console](./deep-linking-cicd-providers.png)

> Pulumi supports a variety of CI/CD providers, but if yours isn't listed in [our CI/CD guide]({{< relref "/docs/guides/continuous-delivery" >}})
> [let us know](https://slack.pulumi.com) or [contribute it](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/tree/master/pkg/util/ciutil)
> on your own.

## Pretty Printing JSON / Multi Configuration

We now pretty print configuration values that look like JSON, and have much better support for viewing multi-line data.

![JSON and mutiline configuration values](./pretty-print-multiline-json.gif)

## Download Earlier Checkpoints

The most important job of the Pulumi Console is to maintain a durable, accurate snapshot of your cloud resource data.
While in most cases your [stack's checkpoint data]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/state" >}}) is a low-level detail
you don't need to worry about, in some advanced scenarios you may need to inspect or edit it manually.

> You can now allow download a stack’s checkpoint file directly from the Pulumi Console. (Though you can sill access the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can now download a stack’s checkpoint file directly from the Pulumi Console. You can also access the
```

same data from the command-line, using `pulumi stack export` ([documentation]({{< relref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_stack_export" >}})),
which now supports a `--version` flag to export older checkpoint files too.

![Download stack checkpoints from the Pulumi Console](./download-checkpoint-file.png)

## Reverse Stack Permissions View

The Team Pro and Enterprise editions support [role-based access control]({{< relref "/docs/intro/console/collaboration/stack-permissions" >}})
using [teams]({{< relref "/docs/intro/console/collaboration/teams" >}}). But a common problem we've heard from people in large organizations

> is that it can be difficult to review exactly *_what_* access someone has access to a stack and *_why_*.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
is that it can be difficult to review exactly *_what_* access someone has to a stack and *_why_*.
```

That's why the recent feature I'm personally the most excited about, is the ability for organization administrators to drill into their

> members and review stack permissions.

Reviewer 5: Perhaps drop the "personally most excited about"?

Reviewer 2: Also, `drill into their members` didn't quite read as intended for me. Maybe something more like, "the ability for organization administrators to view their members' stack permissions."

Author: > Perhaps drop the "personally most excited about"?

Fine. But let the record state, that I was personally the most excited about this particular feature.

> "drill into their members"

Yeah, glad you said something. Changed.

You can see what stacks a member has access to.

![Stacks an organization member has access to](./list-of-accessible-stacks.png)

> And also see what sources are granting that stack access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And also see what sources are granting that access.
```

.. only because otherwise, it reads ambiguously, like, is access being granted _to the stack_? or to the person _for_ the stack? Since stack access is what we're talking about, the word stack can just be dropped, I think.

![Sources granting stack permissions](./stack-access-grants.png)

> ## Log Rendering Performance

Reviewer 3: How about a section called "Other improvements" and then for anything that we cannot "show", we simply state the improvement, such as this one here? Mobile apps and even SaaS platforms often do this.

Author: I'm inclined to keep this as-is. Your suggestion is a good one, but in this case I'd like to err on the side of making sure every "cool thing" gets its own heading. (Even if there isn't an image.) Since I suspect a lot of people will just visually skim the post, and not read the specific details... gotta make sure we get as much credit as we are due here 😀 !

> Sadly, there isn't a useful screen shot to go along with this improvement. But we've made some changes that dramatically

Reviewer 5: No need to apologize.  Could be worth a screenshot of the page in question (even though the actual content of the page hasn't changed)?

Reviewer 2: Could maybe use

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/274700/75494663-97223780-5971-11ea-99a6-352da74af048.png)

or

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/274700/75495238-e4eb6f80-5972-11ea-8d3c-32b66ac43150.png)

Author: I'll update the text and use that gif, thanks Christian! But I did crop the last N frames from it. I don't want to display the "duration: 46m53s" part, since it might make the casual observer think it's related to end-to-end- update performance. And not specific to how quickly we render/scroll update logs.

improve the Pulumi Console's performance when rendering update logs for large stacks.

## Audit Logs

> Users of our Enterprise tier typically have a lot of stacks and teams. This can make it difficult to review what's currently in-motion

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Users of Pulumi Enterprise typically have a lot of stacks and teams. This can make it difficult to review what's currently in-motion
```

> right now, let alone try to understand a sequence of events a few days or few weeks in the past.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
and to understand a sequence of events a few days or few weeks in the past.
```

[As we announced earlier]({{< relref "/blog/auditing-your-organizations-infrastructure-as-code-activity" >}}) we launched the ability to view
and download audit logs with all the changes within an organization.

![Audit logs of recent changes within an organization](./audit-logs.png)

> Phew! Like I said, we've been busy this month working on the Pulumi Console. But have plenty more awesomeness still in the pipe.

Reviewer 5: Perhaps a `## Conclusion` header?

Author: Sure, done.

> Phew! Like I said, we've been busy this month working on the Pulumi Console. But have plenty more awesomeness still in the pipe.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Phew! Like I said, we've been busy this month working on the Pulumi Console. And there is plenty more awesomeness still in the pipe!
```

> (If you want to get a peek at other things in-development, check out the [Pulumi 2.0 Roadmap]({{< relref "/blog/pulumi-2-0-roadmap" >}}).)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you want to get a peek at other things in-development, check out the [Pulumi 2.0 Roadmap]({{< relref "/blog/pulumi-2-0-roadmap" >}}).
```
